# What is a registry? | Docker Docs

Source: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/docker-concepts/the-basics/what-is-a-registry/

Back
Get started
Guides
Manuals
Reference
Get Docker
What is Docker?
Introduction
Get Docker Desktop
Develop with containers
Build and push your first image
What's next
Docker concepts
The basics
What is a container?
What is an image?
What is a registry?
What is Docker Compose?
Building images
Understanding the image layers
Writing a Dockerfile
Build, tag, and publish an image
Using the build cache
Multi-stage builds
Running containers
Publishing and exposing ports
Overriding container defaults
Persisting container data
Sharing local files with containers
Multi-container applications
Docker workshop
Part 1: Containerize an application
Part 2: Update the application
Part 3: Share the application
Part 4: Persist the DB
Part 5: Use bind mounts
Part 6: Multi-container apps
Part 7: Use Docker Compose
Part 8: Image-building best practices
Part 9: What next
Educational resources
Home
/
Get started
/
Docker concepts
/
The basics
/
What is a registry?
What is a registry?
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
Explanation
Registry vs. repository
Try it out
Sign up for a free Docker account
Create your first repository
Sign in with Docker Desktop
Clone sample Node.js code
Additional resources
Next steps
Explanation
Now that you know what a container image is and how it works, you might wonder - where do you store these images?
Well, you can store your container images on your computer system, but what if you want to share them with your friends or use them on another machine? That's where the image registry comes in.
An image registry is a centralized location for storing and sharing your container images. It can be either public or private.
Docker Hub
is a public registry that anyone can use and is the default registry.
While Docker Hub is a popular option, there are many other available container registries available today, including
Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
,
Azure Container Registry (ACR)
, and
Google Container Registry (GCR)
. You can even run your private registry on your local system or inside your organization. For example, Harbor, JFrog Artifactory, GitLab Container registry etc.
Registry vs. repository
While you're working with registries, you might hear the terms
registry
and
repository
as if they're interchangeable. Even though they're related, they're not quite the same thing.
A
registry
is a centralized location that stores and manages container images, whereas a
repository
is a collection of related container images within a registry. Think of it as a folder where you organize your images based on projects. Each repository contains one or more container images.
The following diagram shows the relationship between a registry, repositories, and images.
Tip
A Docker Personal plan gives you one private repository and unlimited public repositories. To get unlimited private repositories, upgrade to the
Docker Team plan
.
Try it out
In this hands-on, you will learn how to build and push a Docker image to the Docker Hub repository.
Sign up for a free Docker account
If you haven't created one yet, head over to the
Docker Hub
page to sign up for a new Docker account. Be sure to finish the verification steps sent to your email.
You can use your Google or GitHub account to authenticate.
Create your first repository
Sign in to
Docker Hub
.
Select the
Create repository
button in the top-right corner.
Select your namespace (most likely your username) and enter
docker-quickstart
as the repository name.
Set the visibility to
Public
.
Select the
Create
button to create the repository.
That's it. You've successfully created your first repository. 🎉
This repository is empty right now. You'll now fix this by pushing an image to it.
Sign in with Docker Desktop
Download and install
Docker Desktop, if not already installed.
In the Docker Desktop GUI, select the
Sign in
button in the top-right corner
Clone sample Node.js code
In order to create an image, you first need a project. To get you started quickly, you'll use a sample Node.js project found at
github.com/dockersamples/helloworld-demo-node
. This repository contains a pre-built Dockerfile necessary for building a Docker image.
Don't worry about the specifics of the Dockerfile, as you'll learn about that in later sections.
Clone the GitHub repository using the following command:
git clone https://github.com/dockersamples/helloworld-demo-node
Navigate into the newly created directory.
cd helloworld-demo-node
Run the following command to build a Docker image, swapping out
YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME
with your username.
docker build -t <YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart .
Note
Make sure you include the dot (.) at the end of the
docker build
command. This tells Docker where to find the Dockerfile.
Run the following command to list the newly created Docker image:
docker images
You will see output like the following:
REPOSITORY TAG IMAGE ID CREATED SIZE
<YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart latest 476de364f70e 2 minutes ago 170MB
Start a container to test the image by running the following command (swap out the username with your own username):
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 <YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart
You can verify if the container is working by visiting
http://localhost:8080
with your browser.
Use the
docker tag
command to tag the Docker image. Docker tags allow you to label and version your images.
docker tag <YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart <YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart:1.0
Finally, it's time to push the newly built image to your Docker Hub repository by using the
docker push
command:
docker push <YOUR_DOCKER_USERNAME>/docker-quickstart:1.0
Open
Docker Hub
and navigate to your repository. Navigate to the
Tags
section and see your newly pushed image.
In this walkthrough, you signed up for a Docker account, created your first Docker Hub repository, and built, tagged, and pushed a container image to your Docker Hub repository.
Additional resources
Docker Hub Quickstart
Manage Docker Hub Repositories
Next steps
Now that you understand the basics of containers and images, you're ready to learn about Docker Compose.
What is Docker Compose?
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents
Explanation
Registry vs. repository
Try it out
Sign up for a free Docker account
Create your first repository
Sign in with Docker Desktop
Clone sample Node.js code
Additional resources
Next steps
