# Overview of the Docker workshop | Docker Docs

Source: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/workshop/

Back
Get started
Guides
Manuals
Reference
Get Docker
What is Docker?
Introduction
Get Docker Desktop
Develop with containers
Build and push your first image
What's next
Docker concepts
The basics
What is a container?
What is an image?
What is a registry?
What is Docker Compose?
Building images
Understanding the image layers
Writing a Dockerfile
Build, tag, and publish an image
Using the build cache
Multi-stage builds
Running containers
Publishing and exposing ports
Overriding container defaults
Persisting container data
Sharing local files with containers
Multi-container applications
Docker workshop
Part 1: Containerize an application
Part 2: Update the application
Part 3: Share the application
Part 4: Persist the DB
Part 5: Use bind mounts
Part 6: Multi-container apps
Part 7: Use Docker Compose
Part 8: Image-building best practices
Part 9: What next
Educational resources
Home
/
Get started
/
Docker workshop
Overview of the Docker workshop
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
What is a container?
What is an image?
Next steps
This 45-minute workshop contains step-by-step instructions on how to get started with Docker. This workshop shows you how to:
Build and run an image as a container.
Share images using Docker Hub.
Deploy Docker applications using multiple containers with a database.
Run applications using Docker Compose.
Note
For a quick introduction to Docker and the benefits of containerizing your
applications, see
Getting started
.
What is a container?
A container is a sandboxed process running on a host machine that is isolated from all other processes running on that host machine. That isolation leverages
kernel namespaces and cgroups
,
features that have been in Linux for a long time. Docker makes these capabilities approachable and easy to use. To summarize, a container:
Is a runnable instance of an image. You can create, start, stop, move, or delete a container using the Docker API or CLI.
Can be run on local machines, virtual machines, or deployed to the cloud.
Is portable (and can be run on any OS).
Is isolated from other containers and runs its own software, binaries, configurations, etc.
If you're familiar with
chroot
, then think of a container as an extended version of
chroot
. The filesystem comes from the image. However, a container adds additional isolation not available when using chroot.
What is an image?
A running container uses an isolated filesystem. This isolated filesystem is provided by an image, and the image must contain everything needed to run an application - all dependencies, configurations, scripts, binaries, etc. The image also contains other configurations for the container, such as environment variables, a default command to run, and other metadata.
Next steps
In this section, you learned about containers and images.
Next, you'll containerize a simple application and get hands-on with the concepts.
Containerize an application
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents
What is a container?
What is an image?
Next steps
