# Build and push your first image | Docker Docs

Source: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/introduction/build-and-push-first-image/

Back
Get started
Guides
Manuals
Reference
Get Docker
What is Docker?
Introduction
Get Docker Desktop
Develop with containers
Build and push your first image
What's next
Docker concepts
The basics
What is a container?
What is an image?
What is a registry?
What is Docker Compose?
Building images
Understanding the image layers
Writing a Dockerfile
Build, tag, and publish an image
Using the build cache
Multi-stage builds
Running containers
Publishing and exposing ports
Overriding container defaults
Persisting container data
Sharing local files with containers
Multi-container applications
Docker workshop
Part 1: Containerize an application
Part 2: Update the application
Part 3: Share the application
Part 4: Persist the DB
Part 5: Use bind mounts
Part 6: Multi-container apps
Part 7: Use Docker Compose
Part 8: Image-building best practices
Part 9: What next
Educational resources
Home
/
Get started
/
Introduction
/
Build and push your first image
Build and push your first image
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
Explanation
Container images
Docker Hub
Try it out
Sign in with your Docker account
Create an image repository
Build and push the image
Recap
Next steps
Explanation
Now that you've updated the
to-do list app
, you’re ready to create a container image for the application and share it on Docker Hub. To do so, you will need to do the following:
Sign in with your Docker account
Create an image repository on Docker Hub
Build the container image
Push the image to Docker Hub
Before you dive into the hands-on guide, the following are a few core concepts that you should be aware of.
Container images
If you’re new to container images, think of them as a standardized package that contains everything needed to run an application, including its files, configuration, and dependencies. These packages can then be distributed and shared with others.
Docker Hub
To share your Docker images, you need a place to store them. This is where registries come in. While there are many registries, Docker Hub is the default and go-to registry for images. Docker Hub provides both a place for you to store your own images and to find images from others to either run or use as the bases for your own images.
When choosing base images, Docker Hub offers two categories of trusted, Docker-maintained images:
Docker Official Images (DOI)
– Curated images for popular software, following best practices and regularly updated.
Docker Hardened Images (DHI)
– Minimal, secure, production-ready images with near-zero CVEs, designed to reduce attack surface and simplify compliance. DHI images are free and open source under Apache 2.0.
In
Develop with containers
, you used the following images that came from Docker Hub, each of which are
Docker Official Images
:
node
- provides a Node environment and is used as the base of your development efforts. This image is also used as the base for the final application image.
mysql
- provides a MySQL database to store the to-do list items
phpmyadmin
- provides phpMyAdmin, a web-based interface to the MySQL database
traefik
- provides Traefik, a modern HTTP reverse proxy and load balancer that routes requests to the appropriate container based on routing rules
Explore the full catalog of trusted content on Docker Hub:
Docker Official Images
– Curated images for popular software
Docker Hardened Images
– Security-hardened, minimal production images (also available at
dhi.io
)
Docker Verified Publishers
– Images from verified software vendors
Docker Sponsored Open Source
– Images from sponsored OSS projects
Try it out
In this hands-on guide, you'll learn how to sign in to Docker Hub and push images to Docker Hub repository.
Sign in with your Docker account
To push images to Docker Hub, you will need to sign in with a Docker account.
Open the Docker Dashboard.
Select
Sign in
at the top-right corner.
If needed, create an account and then complete the sign-in flow.
Once you're done, you should see the
Sign in
button turn into a profile picture.
Create an image repository
Now that you have an account, you can create an image repository. Just as a Git repository holds source code, an image repository stores container images.
Go to
Docker Hub
.
Select
Create repository
.
On the
Create repository
page, enter the following information:
Repository name
-
getting-started-todo-app
Short description
- feel free to enter a description if you'd like
Visibility
- select
Public
to allow others to pull your customized to-do app
Select
Create
to create the repository.
Build and push the image
Now that you have a repository, you are ready to build and push your image. An important note is that the image you are building extends the Node image, meaning you don't need to install or configure Node, yarn, etc. You can simply focus on what makes your application unique.
What is an image/Dockerfile?
Without going too deep yet, think of a container image as a single package that contains
everything needed to run a process. In this case, it will contain a Node environment,
the backend code, and the compiled React code.
Any machine that runs a container using the image, will then be able to run the application as
it was built without needing anything else pre-installed on the machine.
A
Dockerfile
is a text-based script that provides the instruction set on how to build
the image. For this quick start, the repository already contains the Dockerfile.
CLI
VS Code
To get started, either clone or
download the project as a ZIP file
to your local machine.
$
git clone https://github.com/docker/getting-started-todo-app
And after the project is cloned, navigate into the new directory created by the clone:
$
cd
getting-started-todo-app
Build the project by running the following command, swapping out
DOCKER_USERNAME
with your username.
$
docker build -t <DOCKER_USERNAME>/getting-started-todo-app .
For example, if your Docker username was
mobydock
, you would run the following:
$
docker build -t mobydock/getting-started-todo-app .
To verify the image exists locally, you can use the
docker image ls
command:
$
docker image ls
You will see output similar to the following:
REPOSITORY TAG IMAGE ID CREATED SIZE
mobydock/getting-started-todo-app latest 1543656c9290 2 minutes ago 1.12GB
...
To push the image, use the
docker push
command. Be sure to replace
DOCKER_USERNAME
with your username:
$
docker push <DOCKER_USERNAME>/getting-started-todo-app
Depending on your upload speeds, this may take a moment to push.
Open Visual Studio Code. Ensure you have the
Docker extension for VS Code
installed from
Extension Marketplace
.
In the
File
menu, select
Open Folder
. Choose
Clone Git Repository
and paste this URL:
https://github.com/docker/getting-started-todo-app
Right-click the
Dockerfile
and select the
Build Image...
menu item.
In the dialog that appears, enter a name of
DOCKER_USERNAME/getting-started-todo-app
, replacing
DOCKER_USERNAME
with your Docker username.
After pressing
Enter
, you'll see a terminal appear where the build will occur. Once it's completed, feel free to close the terminal.
Open the Docker Extension for VS Code by selecting the Docker logo in the left nav menu.
Find the image you created. It'll have a name of
docker.io/DOCKER_USERNAME/getting-started-todo-app
.
Expand the image to view the tags (or different versions) of the image. You should see a tag named
latest
, which is the default tag given to an image.
Right-click on the
latest
item and select the
Push...
option.
Press
Enter
to confirm and then watch as your image is pushed to Docker Hub. Depending on your upload speeds, it might take a moment to push the image.
Once the upload is finished, feel free to close the terminal.
Recap
Before you move on, take a moment and reflect on what happened here. Within a few moments, you were able to build a container image that packages your application and push it to Docker Hub.
Going forward, you’ll want to remember that:
Docker Hub is the go-to registry for finding trusted content. Docker provides a collection of trusted content, composed of Docker Official Images, Docker Verified Publishers, and Docker Sponsored Open Source Software, to use directly or as bases for your own images.
Docker Hub provides a marketplace to distribute your own applications. Anyone can create an account and distribute images. While you are publicly distributing the image you created, private repositories can ensure your images are accessible to only authorized users.
Usage of other registries
While Docker Hub is the default registry, registries are standardized and made
interoperable through the
Open Container Initiative
. This allows companies and
organizations to run their own private registries. Quite often, trusted content
is mirrored (or copied) from Docker Hub into these private registries.
Next steps
Now that you’ve built an image, it's time to discuss why you as a developer should learn more about Docker and how it will help you in your day-to-day tasks.
What's Next
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents
Explanation
Container images
Docker Hub
Try it out
Sign in with your Docker account
Create an image repository
Build and push the image
Recap
Next steps
